Variables & Types.
So I'm now I'm opening this
Lesson 2 that we have here, okay?
Remember, kts is just this simple way
that we have to see some Kotlin codes.
We can execute this code, but without
attaching this to an actual app, okay?
That's kind of the idea, this is not
an app, we are not building an app.
We're just playing with Kotlin and for
that we use this kts file format that
we'll never see again, we will never
see this format again later, okay.
All the files will be just kt,
that's the extension for Kotlin.
So we mentioned that it's
an statically typed language.
So actually every variable
will have a type.
So in this case, data will have a type
even if I don't see explicitly any type.
If you hover with your cursor,
you will see there that it says,
integer is really small, okay?
But let me see if I can zoom
in a little bit, like so.
So you can see it says,
the data is an int.
So it's actually using, It's actually
inferring the type based on
the value that I'm setting.
But if I want to,
I can use colon and the type,
such as Int, capital I,
because it's a data type, okay?
So be careful if you're coming from other
languages where int is with lowercase i.
So this is a mutable variable,
we use var for variable, okay?
But we also have immutable variables with
the keyword val from value, val, not var.
By the way, do you know the difference
between an immutable variable and
a constant?
Does anyone know the difference between?
>> It's compiling time.
>> Compiling time,
it has to do with that, exactly.
A constant value is something that needs
to be defined at compilation time,
when you're compiling the app,
the value must be set, that's a constant.
An immutable variable, it's a variable, so
it's actually a place in memory
when you're executing the app, but
the idea is that once you set the value,
it's immutable, so you cannot change that.
So for example, in Kotlin we have both,
constant and immutable variables.
Typically we use immutable variables.
Immutable variables can be set with values
coming from a database, from the network,
from what the user is typing.
A constant, no, a constant must
be set at compilation time.
So a constant is actually const val,
that's how you set that.
And we don't have global constants,
they must be part of an structure
such as an object or a class.
We don't know what an object is,
please give me a minute, okay?
So have in mind that, so
if you're coming from other languages,
val is like let in Swift,
it's like const in JavaScript, okay?
But here it's val.
Then types, as I mentioned before,
we use colon, okay, but if not,
they are inferred.
Similar to other languages with type
inference, we might have a problem.
For example, we have a price that is
a double, other price, it's also double,
because I'm setting a value,
even if I'm not explicitly saying double.
But sometimes we want the double,
but we are getting an integer.
That's because 23 is an integer.
Well, we can solve the problem with .0,
in that case it's a double.
So, .0 will force a double.
Also you can force explicitly the type.
In case you have this ambiguity,
you can resolve those ambiguities
by defining the type.
A double is by default
a double precision float.
We also have the type float,
and there is an F that we can
add here to explicitly say
that we don't want a double,
we want a lower precision float, okay?
We don't going to use this a lot actually,
okay?
But have in mind it's there.
We have a structural equality,
that's double equals, and
triple equals is referential equality.
So the first one is actually like
executing the equals method of that
object to see if the contents are equal.
For example, dual strings will give
me true, but will give me false on
referential equality because I'm
actually making two objects, okay?
So this is true because they
have the same value and
this is false because there
are different objects.
Every time we create a literal string,
it's actually a different
object in memory, okay?
Similar to what you have on other
languages, it's similar to JavaScript.
It's not the same but
similar to the idea in JavaScript.
Core data types, strings,
characters is char,
int, double, Boolean, and we have Any.
We don't typically use Any a lot,
but Any means, well,
in this variable I can
hold any kind of option.
And then you need to cast or ask for
a type before actually using it, okay?
As I mentioned, we have float,
also for integers, we have bytes,
shorts, and longs.
So integers actually
goes between short and
long in terms of how many bits it's using.
We use double quotes for strings, okay?
We also have a way to create a multiline
string using triple double quotes, okay?
And this is multiline, and the multiline,
it's actually pretty good,
for example, for
JSON because now you don't need to
escape, The quotes, okay?
So, something like that.
On every string we have
template expressions.
Template expressions are using
the dollar sign when it's just
the name of a variable.
Or we use the dollar sign and a code
block for a more complex expression.
And it's going to make a replacement
automatically on that string.
So that's pretty straightforward and
easy to use.
Similar to JavaScript in that case.